No Man's Sky v1.03
==================

It appears that Steam stores every version that the developers upload. You can use `SteamDB <https://steamdb.info/>`_ to find them and `DepotDownloader <https://github.com/SteamRE/DepotDownloader>`_ to download them.

The first public version on Steam is 1.03; there is no 1.00.

.. note:: You can use this method to get any version.

#. Log into Steam.

#. (If you don't own the game) Buy No Man's Sky.

#. (If you own the game) Back up saves in ``%appdata%\HelloGames`` and delete the folder.
    .. note::
        
        Steam Cloud Sync will upload 1.03 saves if you're not in offline mode

#. Open SteamDB. Sign in to see more info. Search for "No Man's Sky" (app ``275850``). Click Depots. Find No Man's Sky Content for Windows (``275851``). Find earliest manifest (``4186508802612155038``).
    .. note::

        Since we already know the app/depot/manifest information, we can skip to the next step. However, I'm including it so you know how to find other manifests.

    .. note::

        The manifests are unlabelled apart from upload time. For specific versions, you'll need to match up the timestamp with the release announcement. I use the `No Man's Sky wiki <https://nomanssky.fandom.com/wiki/No_Man%27s_Sky_Wiki>`_ for that.

#. Use DepotDownloader to download that manifest. Move the files somewhere memorable (like ``C:\``).
    .. code-block::
        
        depotdownloader -app 275850 -depot 275851 -manifest 4186508802612155038

#. Launch ``Binaries\NMS.exe``. First launch could take a while due to antivirus, shader compile, etc.

TODO:

- Controller support? I swear that I got this working once.

Bugs:

- Don't alt-tab in fullscreen mode!
- Before you land, there's no indication about whether the game will use a launchpad or not (saving launch thruster fuel on take off). Oddly, you can see in 1.00 PS4 footage that there is an indicator...

Tricks:

- Money: get Plasma Launcher, camp out minor settlements, destroy sentinels, sell Neutrino Modules.
- Save scum to get desired outcomes.
- Get upgraded Atlas Pass for free stuff: v1 from quests, v2 and v3 from manufacturing facilities.
    - Find manufacturing facilities with beacons.

Other Versions
--------------

1.30:

- Running the binary will launch the steam game, so you need to install over that .
- Some shaders don't compile on modern gpus so you'll be left with black objects.
- First launch takes 1-2 minutes to compiles shaders.
